Docs 6963 add curl example for org and env pa (#196)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/analytics-event-api.adoc

> endif::[]

Reviewer: Instructions for edit:

Kim, can you please edit this PR for me by tomorrow a.m.? Yeah no pressure huh! :slightly_smiling_face: Also, this needs a copy edits please for all things white, blue, green and red:

Reviewer: The title Reviewing Analytics Event API confused me, because I thought first that it should be Reviewing the Analytics Event API, so I think that "reviewing" might not be the best way to word this.
How about "Using the Analytics Event API" or <Achieving this result> Using the Analytics Event API"?

Author: Generating Analytics Reports for APIs?

:keywords: analytics, api, reports

> API Manager gathers analytics data for each API that you manage.  You can generate this data in reports and charts, using the Analytics Event API. You can create reports for a specific environment, can span multiple APIs, or create different reports for the same API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Manager gathers analytics data for each API that you manage.  You can generate this data in reports and charts, using the Analytics Event API. You can create reports for a specific environment or for multiple APIs, and you can create different reports for the same API. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The Analytics Event API provides a one month retention policy for events, with a data availability delay of up to 10 minutes. The Analytics Event API enforces a usage limit of 10 requests per minute, with a maximum of 20,000 events per request. Request rates higher than 10 request per minutes are throttled.

Reviewer: Most of this content looks as if it could belong under Limitations (which I suggest renaming to Restrictions and/or Requirements). So consider limiting this paragraph to the following info, and move the rest to the next section?
```suggestion
Requests to the Analytics Event API can take up to 10 minutes to process. Results are retained for one month.
```

Reviewer: Note that I will suggest where to move the usage limits documented here in the list following. I just moved the info.

Author: Kim, I feel that keeping the term "retention policy" makes sense because that's the keyword the customers will be scanning for.

> == Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Restrictions and Requirements
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The Event API is designed to create ad-hoc reports, and is not intended as a data export tool. Before you export data, review the following recommendations:

Reviewer: The existing text says that this is not a data export tool...and then it says "before you export data"....
```suggestion
The Event API is designed to create ad-hoc reports. It is not intended as a data export tool. Before you start using the API to create reports, consider the following requirements and restrictions:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** Do not allow calls to overlap time intervals.

Reviewer: I don't understand what "to overlap time intervals" means. If you can make up to 10 per minute, how would this happen? Do you mean "Requests must not overlap"?  Although I still do not understand how that happens....  ;-)

Author: OK, not clear either, but leaving it as is for now.

> ** Retrieve all the data that you need in a single request. 

Reviewer: This is where I would note the event-number limitation previously in the intro:
```suggestion
* Retrieve all the data that you need in a single request, but note that data retrieval is limited to 20,000 events.
```

Reviewer: These subbullets should all be bullets.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> ** Do not repeat the same request for every API that you have.

Reviewer: Promote to bullet. Also, the earlier text says you can make requests of multiple APIs, so what is the reason for this requirement? Is it that you will likely hit the 20,000 limit, or is it that this would just be a useless request?
```suggestion
* Do not repeat the same request for every API that you have.
```

Author: Changed to bullet.

> ** Do not call the Analytics Event API more than once per minute.

Reviewer: Is there a difference between a "call" and a "request"? If so, should we define that? If not:
```suggestion
* Although the Analytics Event API can process up to 10 requests per minute, best practice is 1 per minute.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

** For organizations whose API usage exceeds 20,000 calls per 10 minutes, consider a different way for data export. 
+

> You can configure API gateway to send usage events directly to monitoring systems.

Reviewer: As an item in this list, this text is repetitive of previous items.
Consider moving this to the intro, because it is something a reader should see right away, if they need to use the alternative method of retrieving report data.
I would end the intro text with something like, 
"If your organization's API use exceeds 20,000 requests per 10 minutes, using this API causes throttling. Consider the alternative of configuring the API gateway to send events directly to monitoring systems." Maybe a cross-ref to how to do this?

Author: Done! Thanks!

* Do not use the Analytics Event API for data synchronization. +

> If you need to synchronize data for events with an external system, see xref:analytics-event-forward.adoc[analytics event forwarding] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to synchronize data for events with an external system, see xref:analytics-event-forward.adoc[Analytics Event Forwarding].
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Creating a Report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create a Report
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The following procedure describes how to create a report to find the API events. For example, you might want to find events that were rejected because of policy violations, such as rate limiting or IP blacklisting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following task illustrates how to create a report to find API events by using an example in which you want to find events that were rejected because of policy violations, such as rate limiting or IP blacklisting:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To create a report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . In *API Manager > Analytics > Manage Reports*, click *New* to create a new report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to *API Manager > Analytics > Manage Reports* and click *New*.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. In *Create Report*, select a data source, range, and format.
. In *Fields*, select *Violated Policy Name*.
+

> A URL appears that you can use to see the report after you save it. The date that data becomes

Reviewer: I don't understand the second sentence.
Are the results of the step that 1) a URL appears and 2) the date that the report is available appears?
If not, consider whether your audience really needs that date. If so, clarify what that date specifies: when "data becomes available for the data source" is unclear.

Author: Done! Thanks!

available for the data source you specified appears.
+
. Save the report.
+

> When the report is generated, go to the URL to view it.

Reviewer: After the user saves the report, is this the point at which it can take up to 10 minutes for results?
How will the user know "when the report is generated"?

Reviewer: Stopped, sent to writer, and resumed edit here.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == Running a Report in the Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Run a Report in the Browser
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> API Analytics lists the starting point for when data is available for the API, including a warning message if no data is available for the API.

Reviewer: Is "API Analytics" here different from "Analytics Event API"? Clarify naming.

Reviewer: I can't understand how this sentence relates to the title or the task that follows. Clarify.

Reviewer: Wording-wise, you don't "list" a starting point, because it is just one thing. You show it or provide it or display it or....
Also wording-wise, the starting point does not include the warning; the warning appears if there is no starting point. If you keep this text--and I would not keep it in its current isolation from title and task--consider rewording to
```suggestion
API Analytics displays a time from which requested data should be available. If no data is available, a warning message appears. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To run a report in a browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a report in a browser, navigate to the *Manage Reports* page and click *Run* for your desired report:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> On the *Manage Reports* page, click *Run* for the specified report.

Reviewer: OMIT in favor of the combined intro above
```suggestion
```

Author: Deleted sentence! Thanks!

image::anev-running-report2.png[anev_running_report2]

> After the report runs, a .CSV or .JSON file is geneeated with the analytics data for the specified parameters.

Reviewer 2: you wrote "is geneeated", seems to be a typo

Author: This is so funny. In the file, the spelling is correct. Eerie! :-)

> After the report runs, a .CSV or .JSON file is generated with the analytics data for the specified parameters.

Reviewer: Per style ref, CSV and JSON, no dots (which are for lowercase file extensions)
```suggestion
After the report runs, a CSV or JSON file is generated, containing the analytics data you requested.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> === Using curl to View Report Information

Reviewer: I can't begin to edit this topic because I cannot figure out how it relates to describing the API, creating a report, and running a report, except through this title. It begins with getting the value of a parameter that has not been introduced yet, and goes on to describe other syntax without context.
I think this probably needs rewriting, not patching.
I will proofread this only.

Author: I agree. Will create a JIRA for this.

Author: Done!

> === Using curl to View Report Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== View Report Information Using curl
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> You get the value of `$TOKEN` by running the curl command in this procedure. The command gets the `access_token` JSON property of this response.

Reviewer: `curl`

Reviewer: To what does "this response" refer?

Author: Response of a request.

> The authorization header has the form: Authorization: `Bearer {$TOKEN.access_token}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authorization header has the form `Authorization: Bearer {$TOKEN.access_token}`.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The use of the `jq` command-line JSON processor is one possible solution for obtaining the access token value. Download and install this application or one with the same functionality for this procedure.

Reviewer: `jq` has not been shown above, and what is a "command-line JSON processor"? 
Does this simply mean the use of the JSON processor, which is a text editor that precedes its command line with `jq`?

Reviewer: I think what all this text might be is a prereq to the View task.

Author: Done! Thanks!

 }
----
+

> . After you obtain the access, append it to the `Authorization` header in the request of the Analytics Reporting API endpoint for your report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Append the access token to the `Authorization` header in the request of the Analytics Reporting API endpoint for your report:
```

Reviewer: Note that this topic set has not yet introduced the Analytics Reporting API and its relationship to the primary topic, the Analytics Event API.

Author: Thanks!

> .. To make a request to this endpoint, copy it from the *Manage Reports* page in the Analytics dashboard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Copy the endpoint from the *Manage Reports* page in the Analytics dashboard. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> .. Using the `$TOKEN` variable from the previous step, include it in the next request as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Include the `$TOKEN` variable from the previous step in the next request, as shown in the following example that retrieves analytics for organizations without environments:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> This example retrieves the analytics for organizations without environments:

Reviewer: OMIT in favor of previous intro
```suggestion:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
[source,console]
----
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/analytics/1.0/<ORGANIZATION_ID>/events?format=csv&startDate=2016-01-01&endDate=2016-12-31&fields=Application%20Name.Client%20IP.Resource%20Path" > output.csv
----
+

> . If the request is successful, an `output.csv` file is generated in the directory from where you initiated the `curl` request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If the request is successful, an `output.csv` file is generated in the directory from which you initiated the `curl` request.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> This example queries the Events API for organizations with environments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This next example queries the Analytics Events API for organizations with environments:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,console]
----
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com:443/analytics/1.0/<ORGANIZATION_ID>/environments/<ENVIRONMENT_ID>/events?format=csv&apiIds=<API_ID>&duration=30d" > output.csv
----

> In this example, analytics data is retrieved for the past 30 days from the API with the API ID <API_ID>. The results are generated in a CSV format. The following example combines two curl commands and displays values in the command prompt window:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, analytics data is retrieved for the past 30 days from the API with the API ID <API_ID>. The results are generated in a CSV format. 

The following example combines two `curl` commands and displays values in the command prompt window:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

=== Supporting Environments

> For organizations that have enabled environments, API events queried using the approach described in the previous section belongs exclusively to the "Unclassified" environment. 

Reviewer: Note that previous text refers to "environments" alone, rather than "enabled environments."

Reviewer: GLOBALLY do not refer to "previous section" or any other information outside of the current text unit. Find another way to name it.

Reviewer: And what does it mean to belong to the unclassified environment? How does this relate to the following task?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To request events for APIs in a specific environment:

Reviewer: THIS is what the intro to this topic set led me to expect:
Request...specific environment
Request...multiple APIs
Request...different for one API
I expected this task much earlier, and I do not see the other two tasks following.

Author: Noted! Thanks!

. Select the environment in the Environment selector and create the report that you want to run. 
+

> Reports are stored based on the environment. Therefore, different reports exist in different environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports are stored where they are created. Therefore, different reports are stored in different environments. 
```
We might not need the second sentence, which states the obvious based on the first.

Author: Keeping the sentence as is as the change you suggest changes the meaning.

> . Copy the report URL from the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy from the UI the report URL generated from creating the report.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> Note that in addition to the organization ID, the URL also includes `/environment/{Environment ID}`. Anypoint Platform assigns a unique ID to an organization and an environment when they are created. For example, an API ID in QA environment will be different from its ID in Production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in addition to the organization ID, the URL also includes `/environment/{Environment ID}`. Anypoint Platform assigns a unique ID to an organization and an environment when they are created. For example, an API ID in the QA environment differs from its ID in the Production environment.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To access events for a specific environment, append the environment ID to the report URL. 

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be the final step in the task?
This task is mostly conceptual information, which is not optimal. 
Review and shorten to the step alone (as much as reasonable) each step in the task of requesting events for APIs in a specific environment.

Author: No change required.

> === Reviewing Command Options

Reviewer: Again, I think we are using "Reviewing" in a confusing way.
Please search for it GLOBALLY and remove it or replace it with "About" or reword it in some other way that reflects the specific content within.
I cannot edit in the blue text directly (you have to have made changes in it for me to do so), but it looks like this topic is simply a command reference topic, and so I would title this "Command Options Reference."

Author: Changed it to Command Options Reference.

> == Reviewing Data Fields for Reports

Reviewer: DITTO: Report Data Fields Reference

Author: Done! Thanks!

|Violated Policy Name |The name of the policy violated by the API request (if any).
|===

> In your query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results of your query depend on whether the `Content-Length` header is present:
```

Author: Made some changes.

> * If the `Content-Length` header is present, the `Response Size` is set to that value. If the `Content-Length` header is not present and the payload is a String, Analytics calculates the length of the String and reports that value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If so, the `Response Size` is set to that value. 
* If not, and the payload is a String, Analytics calculates the length of the String and reports that value. 
```

Author: Made some formatting changes on my own that makes it easier to read now.

> * If the `Content-Length` header is not present and the payload is not a String, Analytics reports the response size as -1. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If not, and the payload is not a String, Analytics reports the response size as -1. 
```

Author: Made some other changes.

+

> For example, if the output returned is a DataWeave stream and the `Content-Length` header is not present, Analytics does not report a response size because the value is not a String. However if your application performs a String conversion, the response size is listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the output returned is a DataWeave stream and the `Content-Length` header is not present, Analytics does not report a response size because the value is not a String. However, if your application performs a String conversion, the response size is shown.
```
I'm not sure that this example clarifies the three possible outputs.
Also, specify which "Analytics" you are referring to by using its complete name. There are several uses of Analytics in this text.

Author: Done! Thanks!
